In this video, I will explain the Parameter Passing Methods.
Like, there are 3 Parameter Passing Methods, Pass by Value, Pass by Address and Pass by Reference.
So for explaining all 3, I have taken 1 simple example that is swapping of numbers.
I have a function for swap.
So let us understand all these 3 methods.
So first is, Pass by Value or Call by Value.
This example is based on Call by Value.
Let me explain you the example first of all, See this is the main function having variables a and b with the
values of 10 and 20.
So these are the variables of main function having values 10 and 20. Then, it is calling swap function
swap function.
The swap function is taking 2 parameters, x and y and it is swapping the numbers x and y with the help
of a temporary variable.
And then, when the control comes back to the main function, it will print the values of a and b.
So, this is the code, main ( ) function and swap ( ) function.
So here in the diagram, I'm showing the variables of main function a and b, and these are the variables
of swap function, that is x, y and temp. And inside the main memory, this is the code section wherever
the program is residing, and these are the stack frames or the activation records of main function and
swap function. When the function type is called, this activation record will be created, and deleted when
the function ends.
So, for explaining the working, I have taken these diagrams.
Now, let us understand Call by Value and it's working.
Now, Call by Value.
See, here the main function is passing these parameters.
These are actual parameters, and these are formal parameters x and y. What happens when the function
is called? The value of a and b is copied in x and y.
So, 10 is copied here and 20 is copied here.
So, the formal parameters are normal variables, so they will take the value of these parameters.
They will take the value, right, when the function is called.
Now this function, as I am not returning anything, it is void type.
Now this is the logic for swapping the values. x and y are swapped.
So with the help of temp.
So first line, temp = x;
This will become 10, and then, x = y;
So this will become 20.
And then y = temp;
So this will become 10.
You can see that the formal parameters are modified but actual parameters remain same.
So, the swapping is done inside the variables of swap function only, they are not reflected inside
actual parameters.
So when the function ends after this line, when it comes back here, there is nothing return, it is
void type, then,
So, a and b are printed.
So, what are the values? Still
10 and 20.
So these values are not swapped.
These values are not swapped, so I'll get the same values, 10 and 20.
So if you see here, these 10 and 20 were there, and these 10 and were passed, and with the
help of temp, this became 20 and this became 10. But actual parameters, they are same only. So, this is Pass by Value.
In Pass by Value,
any changes are done to formal parameters will not reflect in actual parameters.
So, when you should use Pass by Value? When you don't have to modify actual parameters, you can use Pass by
Value. And you can use Pass by Value if a function is
Returning some results. So swap
function should not be done using Pass by Value. In the previous video, we saw adding 2 numbers.
So that is suitable for Pass by Value. So, Pass by Value can be used there.
But here Pass by Value is not suitable for swapping two numbers.
So anyway we have learned what is Pass by Value. In Pass by Value, actual parameters will not
be modified if any changes are done formal parameters.
Next, I will show you Call by Address. Now, let us look at Call by Address.
So in Call by Address mechanism,
The addresses of actual parameters are passed to formal  parameters and  formal parameters must
be pointers.
Any changes is done inside a function will modify actual parameters. Now here, we have to learn 2 things,
How to write Call by Address? and, How it works?
So remember, Call by Address uses pointers.
So let me write down the syntax. So you have to observe the syntax very carefully.
This code is same as Call by Value code, right?
Now, How to convert it into Call by Address code.
So what other things I have to do?
So here, inside the main function, when I'm passing these parameters, these are actual parameters, So I should
send their addresses.
So these are the addresses, this is first thing. So it means I'm sending 200 and 202. Now
who can take addresses? We know pointers can take addresses. So these must be pointers.
Yes these are the pointers. So it means when I pass from here the address 200 will be copied
in this one and 202 will be copied in this one.
So when the function is called, so it means this is pointing on this and this is pointing on this one.
Yes those are the pointers. Now, here inside the code, as this is a pointer,
If I say just x it is 200.
So this will be 200.
No no I'm talking about this.
The value here is 10 and 20.
So I'm talking about the value.
So here I should say I *, and *x, and *y, and here also
So these are the changes we have to make.
So, first I wrote a simple code of Call by Value, then I made it into Call by Address.
So in Call by Address, the formal parameters must be pointers,
And here I have to use de-referencing that is *, for accessing the data of actual parameters. And here,
addresses must be passed.
So these are the changes in the syntax.
So you should observe the syntax very carefully.
Now I will show you the working.
Let us start executing the program. See first,
The main function is having 2 variables, a and b. They are having values 10 and 20.
So these are 10 and 20. Next, the swap function it's called, the addresses are passed.
So, these are the pointers. So they will take the addresses.
So here in the diagram, if you want to see, these are pointing on this one they are having the addresses.
So now, this function can access the variables of  another function.
It's not directly, it is indirectly using pointers.
Yes.
One function cannot access the variables of another function directly but it can access using pointers
so it can access indirectly.
Yes this is indirect access. Now, when the function is called, temp is already there.
temp = *x; So, *x,
So that is 10. If you say x, it is 200. *x? it is 10. So, 10 is stored in temp.
*x =*y; *x is 10, *y is 20.
So this is copied here. 20 is copied here. Then, *y = temp; *y = 10.
So it is 10. Now, you can see that actual variables are modified. So, when the function
ends, control comes back, and when it prints, the value of a is 20 and value of b is 10. So this
is 20 and this is 10.
So yes these are swapped. so Call by Address is suitable mechanism for modifying the actual parameters.
So, we will be using this type of code more frequently in our programs.
So you should be familiar with this one. Call by Address is more useful.
So that's all about Call by Address.
Now the last thing is Call by Reference.
Now let us see all reference. For Call by Reference,
I have written back the same example now, This is Call by Value parameter passing method.
Now what are the changes in this I should do
So that it becomes called by reference?
So, what is a reference
already we have learned in the previous video and references are supported only in C++. This is
not a part of C language, and this is a very useful and powerful mechanism or feature of C++.
So here, we have to learn 2 things, How to write Call by  Reference? and, How it works?
So first of all, How to write call by reference?
Let us look at the code here, inside the main function, I have two variables a and b, a and b are passed.
So this is Call by Value, right?
Nothing is written here.
It is not & or anything, this is Call by Value. Now here,
These are also normal variables, for this is Call by Value, and this is normal code.
So same as Call by Value.
How to make it Call by Reference?
Let us see the changes, here in actual parameters don't do anything.
And inside the body don't do anything.
Same as Call by Value. Only the in parameters, just before
parameter name, or variable name,
write &
So simple syntax. Syntax is very simple.
Just write & there.
Those are references.
This is a reference to a, this  is a reference to b.
y is reference to b.
Those have became references.
And How do you use references? Normally like other variables.
Normal variables, so those are normal variables.
So syntactically, This is Call by Reference. See, it's not a major change. Compared to Call by Value, it's
similar just we are having & there. Now working; How it works?
See this.
Let us start. Program starts from main function, a and b are 2 variables.
Okay. Then, a is having value 10, b is having value 20.
Swap function is called by passing a and b, a and b are passed to x and y. x becomes a reference to a, y becomes a
reference to b; and reference is nothing but alias or another name or a nickname to a variable.
So this itself is x, and that itself is y, right. So does it take any memory?
References doesn't take any memory. Existing variable, another name is given.
Yes so that doesn't take any extra memory.
So, these 4 bytes 2 bytes for integer, 2 bytes for integer, same 4 bytes.
So, these 2 bytes are called as x, and
that 2 bytes are called as y. See, these variables actually belong
to main function. main ( ) is calling them as a b, and swap function is calling them as x y.
Yes.
So swap is calling with another name.
Now, let us continue. Temp variable is declared, okay? Then, now
temp = x; x value is stored in temp. Then x = y;
So this becomes 20. Then, y = temp; so y becomes 10. Function ends.
Control comes back to this line. Print, What are a and b? 20 and 10.
So, 20 and 10. So you can see that, when these formal parameters, x and y are manipulated, the actual
parameters are modified. So that's it.
This is Call by Reference. Now, one important point.
I said that one function cannot access the variables of another function directly, it can access indirectly.
But how it is possible that it is accessing directly? So the answer to this is, if you see inside
the memory, swap is not a separate function.
So if it's not a separate function it has became a part of main function and there is only one activation
activation record.
So if you see the working of the same program here, now as long as the main function code is running,
these are a and b; and once the swap starts these are called as x and y, and also temp variable is created
inside same old activation record of main function, right? Inside the same stack frame And, once the
swap function ends, this is gone, and the values that were 10 and 20, these will change to 20 and 10.
So this swap is not a separate body of a function, it has became a part of the main function. So, it means
that a machine code of the swap function will be pasted here.
So this is more like monolithic program, right?
The entire code inside a single main function only, So the machine code is monolithic. Though the source
code is procedural or modular.
So yes, C++ does this one. C doesn't do this. C++ allows Called by Reference and the code of that function
will be copied at the place of function call. So, do you think this should be allowed or this should be entertain
that code is copied
there? What is the use of writing function?
So yes, this is not
advisable to use Call by Reference more frequently. You can use Call by Reference for
small functions, one or two lines of function, or the function like swap, you can use Call by Reference
but don't use it for heavy functions which are having loops and are having complex logic. So Call by Reference
should be used carefully.
So it's a more powerful feature of C++ but it should be used carefully, right. It cannot be used always.
So that is the reason C++ also have called Call by Address. So, more commonly used features are Call by Value and
Call by Reference.
So that's all about Parameter Passing Methods. Then, in the coming videos, I'll show you how to passe
arrays to a function and how to pass structures to a function.